In the last lecture we created the association between the outdoors and the profiles.
And in this lecture I will show you how we can read that relation.
So first let's start by loading one out or using the Find method so maybe let's try with the outer.
We find you one and what you see is being automatically returned by Lara though is only the fields that
belong to the outer.
So that's a very important thing to know that by default Lavell won't be loading from the database all
the relations of of the model.
You'll have to explicitly load them and how you can do that is to remember that we have the relation
defined US profile methods on the outer model.
But now if you would instead call it as a field which doesn't exist we haven't defined it explicitly
anywhere.
It is just the way larval works that if it will find a field name which has the same name as the method
name of this relation it will use the BHP dynamic capabilities to fetch this related model from the
database.
So now if I press enter only then the La Belle will fetch this relation so you can see that now it shows
me the profile and I did that only by typing the profile as a property.
And now let's see what outer contains so after I've read that profile.
Now the outer model has the I.D. the timestamps and also the profile property which is which contains
the profile model so we can do the same with profiles and load the out or from the other side so let's
clear this and see what profiles do we have so maybe we can load the profile with the IDA five.
Of course this could be different on your setup so just check out what's inside the database and we
will use that profile find method and load the profile with the number five.
So what you can see here is the idea the timestamps and the outer I.D. And of course this works the
other way to that if I will use the outer property on the profile model.
And this is exactly how we have called our relation.
So there is an outer method on the profile model.
It will load the related outer and let us see the profile right now after I use this property.
So each time you use it read it then it just only then makes the query to fetch the related model.
Now this is how profile looks like and it also has this outdoor property with the outer model so this
concept of not loading everything at once is called lazy loading you will come across this term a lot
and basically it is load only the things that you need at the time and lazy loading is by default inside
the larval eloquent models.
Now if you would like to load an outer but you want it to be loaded immediately with the profile with
let's say one query you can also do that maybe let's stop Tinker and restart it.
So we won't have anything loaded and now if you would like to load the outer with the specific idea
and also work that profile there is another way to do it.
So instead of find we'll start with using their width method.
And here you have to specify the relation name so this would be profile so not the method name but the
relation name would be the method name without parentheses and now we could we have to use another method
called where key where we specify what primary key we want to fetch this record by and what will this
return is actually are instance of the eloquent query builder and we haven't talked about query builders
yet we will soon after the section about relations.
But now let's try to just load it without with the profile.
So we stopped at were key and to actually execute this query.
We had to call for example first.
So it will fetch the first element from the query result which would be a collection.
So we do not want a collection we only want one record.
And the method first is allowing us to pick the first result from the collection.
Apparently I've misspelled that.
So let's try again.
I will just copy that
and fix it.
Now we're a key one.
And first Okay so you can see that we have fetched the out or together with profile.
By this simple query.
Now if you think that this just came out of nowhere this part specifically this part with were key.
And first let's go to the Vicky page and here I am mentioning that the model find is actually a shortcut
so click this view source and you will be taken directly to the source code of Lavell inside GitHub
and you can see how the find method looks like how it was implemented.
And this is exactly what it is doing.
It's calling their work key and getting the first result.
Now the outer only has a relation to profile but if you would like to load more than one related entities
let's say that the outer might have profile might have some favorite books or blog posts then you can
also do something like this so it's inside the with method you will maybe specify not one relation but
two or more relations inside an array.
So assuming the recent comments relation which we don't have right now but let's just assume we do.
You will also be able to do something like this and then it will load the outer together with the profile
and the comments relation of course it doesn't work because we don't have the comments relation on the
outer model.
So this is how you can simply load the model at once together with its relations.
And now let's continue to the next lectures when we will talk more about the relations.